[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
charlie state and
naga manchetti our headlines today kind
thoughtful caring and dependable the
family of sarah everard paid tribute
as the police officer continues to be
questioned over her murder
calls to reclaim the streets as the case
sparks anger over the safety of women
in the uk i've never felt safe walking
alone at night as soon as the sun sets
it's
a little bit scarier a little bit more
intense
he falls down he gets right back up
again the former royal marine commander
who lost three limbs in afghanistan
takes on a grueling
charity run good morning sunday service
the
royal mail says it will trial delivering
on a sunday for the first time to cash
in on the boom in
online shopping and as it plays catch up
with its rivals
good morning two wins and two draws for
british sides in the europa league
more magic as well from harry kane who
leaves tottenham with
one foot now in the quarterfinals
and ever changing skies across the uk
today some thundery showers a bit of
sunshine
the odd rainbow two i'll have your full
forecast here on breakfast
good morning it's friday march the 12th
our top story is the family of sarah
reverard
has paid tribute to her as a shining
example to us all who brought so much
joy to our lives
a serving metropolitan police officer is
still being held on suspicion of
murdering the 33 year old
force has referred itself to the police
watchdog over how it investigated a
separate allegation
that the same officer indecently exposed
himself just
three days before sarah went missing
charlotte wright has the latest
developments
bright and beautiful a wonderful
daughter and sister
words from the family of 33 year old
sarah everard
who went missing in south london more
than a week ago
last night her loved ones released this
tribute
after human remains were discovered in
the search for her
she was kind and thoughtful caring and
dependable
she always put others first and had the
most amazing sense of humor
she was strong and principled and a
shining example to us all
this morning a serving met police
diplomatic protection officer remains in
custody
suspected of kidnap and murder he was
arrested in kent on tuesday
yesterday he was taken to hospital after
suffering a head injury while in custody
officers have now been granted more time
to question him
just three days before sarah disappeared
police received a report alleging the
suspect had exposed himself
in a fast food restaurant now the police
watchdog has announced it will
investigate whether officers responded
to that appropriately
it will also separately assess the
actions of police after sarah was
reported missing
at the site of the discovery of human
remains police officers laid flowers
brought by the public
sarah's death has prompted an outpouring
of shock and anger
as women across the country share their
own experiences of feeling unsafe
but for now her family have made a
simple appeal for anyone with
information
to come forward charlotte wright bbc
news
in a moment we'll talk to simon jones in
ashford in kent where an intensive
police search is ongoing
let's go first though to scotland yard
get more detail from charlotte wright
morning to you charlotte
the murder investigation of course is
continuing just uh
give us a little bit more information on
the met police
putting itself under scrutiny in
connection with
separate but clearly connected charges
morning yes well while the police
investigation continues the
investigation
into the police will also begin because
the met is
facing a pretty serious questions at the
moment in particular
after it emerged that the suspect had
been accused of indecent exposure
three days before sarah went missing now
we know two
officers are being investigated by the
independent office for police
conduct over their response to that
accusation that is one of five
investigations being carried out by the
iopc
they're also looking into the mets
response to the initial report
that sarah had gone missing and they're
looking at how the suspect sustained
a head injury while in custody and of
course this
is something that has elicited a huge
response across
the country and across the world and a
number of people
are keen to hold a vigil in sarah's name
on saturday
afternoon a socially distanced vigil but
they say that the met police have told
them
that they can't do that of course in the
current lockdown
these large gatherings can be dispersed
by the police
and they can issue some pretty hefty
fines as well
so this group who want to hold the vigil
say that they'll actually be going to
the high
court today challenging the mets
interpretation of the coronavirus
restrictions they say so you can tell
the strength of feeling that's around
about this issue at the moment charlotte
thank you
now simon jones is in ashford in kent
where police found
human remains on wednesday simon good
morning the investigation there as we
were saying yesterday like to continue
for some time
yes and there's a somber mood at the
investigation site this morning i think
the real enormity of what has happened
over the past few days is starting to
hit home and it has affected
the public as well because i was here
yesterday
as police walked down this road they had
flowers
brought by members of the public who
didn't know sarah everard but they
wanted to express their sympathies to
her family
and her family making that statement
yesterday
really bringing home the enormity of
what has happened to them
talking about her being kind and caring
bright and beautiful now the family is
also appealing for anyone with
information to contact the police
however insignificant they might think
that information
is and certainly the investigation here
has been continuing at pace yesterday so
mobile offices were brought into the
site we saw
divers and sniffer dogs it appears the
police are going to be here for some
time to come
and of course the key thing for them
questioning the suspect a serving met
police officer they have been granted
more time to talk to him
simon thanks very much simon jones there
wales will begin its easing of lockdown
rules from this weekend to allow
more mixing between households indoor
care home visits and
outdoor sports hairdressers and barbers
can also reopen from monday but
non-essential
retailers will remain closed until march
22. here's more from our correspondent
mark hutchings
as shopping experiences go it's not a
bad setting but the high streets of
rural monmouthshire are just as
desperate as city centres to get back
into full trading
since the december lockdown tommy brooks
has swapped hairdressing for a temporary
job
cleaning on a building site he's ready
to reopen
almost as keen to get customers back
through the door as they are to get a
haircut
going off last time what we did was we
actually contacted all clients
um so we'll probably do the same again
and re-book them in order
but from the last experience the first
week back
i could have probably just had someone
full-time on the phone because the phone
was just non-stop
obviously everyone is desperate for a
professional haircut at the moment
it is a rather mixed bag of news from
the welsh government
from tomorrow stay at home becomes stay
local the guidance is five miles though
those in rural areas are afforded more
leeway
four people from two households can
socialize outdoors including gardens
on monday hairdressers return and from
march the 22nd
those shops already open such as
supermarkets can sell non-essential
items
but it won't be until april the 12th
that all other shops and close contact
services can open
those clicking then collecting are
helping things tick over but only just
for most traders here as elsewhere
christmas came and went rather early
so they'd rather like springtime to be
the season to celebrate
mark hutchings bbc news abigail
restrictions will be racks in scotland
from today
up to four people from two households
will be able to meet up outside while up
to 15 people can exercise together
outside first minister nicolas sturgeon
says the new rules are possible because
of what she calls
good progress in suppressing the virus
the government is to hold a public
inquiry to examine whether the
construction of a controversial new coal
mine should be allowed to go ahead
in cumbria the local council had pac
backed the proposal which supporters
argue could create hundreds of jobs
but environmentalists say the
development would damage the uk's
reputation in the run-up to a major u.n
climate summit in glasgow
later this year
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news